Training data and transcript for.
updating and potentially refactoring the
layer 2 portion of the business value
business case development.
So now that we have an RV tools file from
here,
we actually now need to start doing the
mapping of each virtual machine.
In this case now,
because we're talking about building
an Azure consumption plan and mapping
on-premise VMs.
And you see them here in this column.
May or may not necessarily be the first
column, but you got to look for those VMs.
That's already covered in the layer one.
and doing a least cost matching to the
CPU, the memory specs. And in addition,
we'll show after the VM is matched on
managed disk sizing as well.
And we use this example to cover
different scenarios for the agent to
understand what to do in those different
scenarios. The difference though here,
because we're doing an Azure Virtual
Machine mapping through the Retail Price
API.
We only want to do the powered on VMs for
the Azure VM least cost matching that
will then sum up to the Azure consumption
revenue.
So...
Here,
I've already started that exercise to do
the human-based business analyst flow,
so you can see the challenges that we go
through,
so that you can adapt in similar ways of
how.
we do the analytics adaptation for the
least cost Azure VM matching.
Now we use an Excel add-in,
Microsoft Excel add-in called XA2.
you won't have access to that,
so you'll have to build in the logic
yourself or review the existing logic and
potentially refactor it.
So in this example here,
I've already done a bunch of matching to
the to the VMs, the CPU count,
the memory count,
although I've had to convert from MIB for
memory to gigabytes decibel.
And that conversion needs to be done
before you do the Azure Retail Price API
look now.
For many of the virtual machines,
for the CPU count,
and for the memory in GB.
I have gotten successful matching to an
Azure,
a least cost matched Azure virtual
machine.
Now the XA2 function does that
automatically for me, the least cost part.
You have to also do the least cost part.
For whatever number of Azure VM SKUs come
back, pick the least cost,
and we'll start with pay-as-you-go,
but we also want to ultimately show the
reserved instance one year.
The reserved instance, 3 year.
The savings plan, one year,
the savings plan, three year,
if available.
Sometimes for different VM SKUs on Azure,
not all of the pricing offers are
available uniformly.
So you just have to annotate, provide.
warnings or errors when some are missing
a particular pricing offer from the
perspective of the final ACR price may
not be complete if some VMs in the
overall inventory, because we are doing
per VM pricing and summing up the Azure
consumption revenue.
We are not doing fleet wide because that
is too imprecise.
And for a business case or a total cost
of ownership model,
our customers expect more precision.
That's why we do this on a per virtual
machine basis.
So let me show you some of the challenges
of the VMs that initially did not.
match, or in other words,
provided errors using our Excel add-in
XA2,
you see here in the form of this error
value here.
So it's not a successful VM match.
The reason these have successfully
matched
is because I had to manually adjust.
In this example, when you see green,
that means I adjusted down the original
CPU count, or actually it's vCPU,
virtual CPUs,
because we're talking about a virtual
machine.
I, I, I adjusted them down, uh,
basically one by one.
one vCPU at a time until I got a
successful match for a least cost Azure
virtual machine.
And the reason I colored it green,
that's just a formatting thing for me,
for the human business analyst,
to show that.
the vCPU count went down for this match
VM here.
So the price is theoretically better than
if I had left the original vCPU count
that came from the original RV tools file
from the customer. And if instead...
I ended up going up on memory and left
that,
we would end up over inflating the Azure
consumption revenue with very expensive
VMs. So this is a bit of a balancing.
Exercise here, when we see, for example,
in this example here, the original,
the original value was 8. No,
I think it was, I think it was,
I think it was might be something 12,
but maybe it was something,
it was something that.
did not, yes,
something that yielded an error in terms
of the XA2 functions look up through the
same Azure Retail Price API that you will
use did not yield a match.
So then as I started, as I started going
Going down in, you know, well,
11 VCPU increments to see when did I get
when did I get the the the 1st order
match, and well,
so so in this example here,
look looks like the I I got.
A VM,
an Azure Virtual Machine match just
having brought down the original value by
two vCPUs,
so the goal is the adaptations that we
have to manually hit here, and you see...
There were a few virtual machine CPU
quantities that I had to reduce down
until I got a match on the Azure,
the least cost matched Azure virtual
machine.
We try to do that as close to what the
customer's original counts are,
but we're also trying to optimize price.
We're trying to optimize this in a
business case,
so we cannot over-inflate the monthly or
annual Azure.
consumption pricing for a VM just to get
for the sake of getting a match in with a
SKU off of the retail price API.
So now let's go into a different scenario
that has to be accounted for as well. So
In this next scenario,
I did not make any modifications on the
vCPU side, but instead, actually,
so let's go back to an example here.
So I talked before about
Balancing,
so where do I go down to get an Azure
Virtual Machine least cost match,
or potentially even have to go up to get
a least cost Azure Virtual Machine match?
Now, it originally...
This was 10 CPUs on this and this VM here
with eight.
gigabytes after the conversion from MIB
to gigabytes of memory. Now,
what that feels like here is it does not
feel like a terribly high memory bound
workload that's running in that
application.
So, we don't want to go up on the memory.
value to get an Azure Virtual Machine,
least cost Azure Virtual Machine match,
that's going to end up inflating the
pricing in the business case needlessly.
But there are some circumstances where we
see a higher memory count here.
What might have been there before was 18
or 24 CPUs in that virtual machine
sitting alongside 24 gigabytes of memory.
memory.
Now because that's a little higher on the
memory,
I don't want to go higher on there
because that'll really create an
inflation,
an overinflation of the pricing. So.
I gradually started decrementing on the
number of eCPUs to get a successful match
for the least cost Azure virtual machine.
And we'll have a lot of those
circumstances. But here,
where we have one vCPU, well,
we can't decrement down from that anyways.
And there's a very low memory because 128
MIB.
basically equates to a number that's less
than one decimal.
So I basically just rounded up or started
incrementing on a one GB basis until I
got the first least cost Azure virtual
machine.
match.
And so the reason I codified or formatted
this yellow for me is that I went up in
the count with respect to the customer's
original inventory.
So we see we saw many of those here and
here I'll just do
An example live that right now I'm
getting an error,
so I'm not getting an Azure Retail Price
API least cost VM matching with these
counts here as they stand,
so I'm going to start incrementing up.
By one, and I did,
and then you see a successful.
Match there through the Azure Retail Rice
API.
So that basically gives us,
and by the way, again,
it is only for powered on VMs.
You see that here,
powered on VMs for calculating the Azure
consumption revenue.
So then we'll look at.
the different pricing offers.
And we just have to,
so I'm just going to clear a filter here
to then get the entire list to show so I
can show you illustratively what's going
on. And you see that there's
There's a few VMs, the standard F1,
that does not have three-year reserved
instance. So that could be problematic.
Is it possible to find a standard
D-series, D as in David,
series that is not?
overly inflated related to the price of
this initial least cost matching Azure
virtual machine,
that's probably something good to attempt
because generally those would have
three-year reserved instance and
potentially also
Well,
one and three year reserved instance
offers,
as well as potentially one and three year
savings plan offers.
So that's a little bit of the juggling
and adaptation that the business analyst
has to do.
We want this implemented and codified in
the
Business case development application.
So that covers a virtual machine.
Now here, let's talk about managed disk.
So there's storage.
There's storage that is associated with
the virtual machines, and similar to...
the CPU and memory,
if we had utilization numbers for CPU
usage and utilization or in use,
whatever other analogous keywords can be
used to find utilization for memory as
well.
Once we convert it to GB decimal,
we would want to use that because that is
the right sizing. Now,
I have not been able to right size here,
so right sizing in this case right here
for memory and CPUs related to the Azure
Virtual Machine least cost matching,
I will do the right sizing.
fallback after the fact.
And my rule of thumb is 60%,
60% of the CPU and the memory utilization,
so that may yield a different Azure VM
SKU.
for least cost matching. For memory,
sometimes we'll do.
I'm going to take that back.
60% utilization for CPU and 40 or 50%,
sometimes 40% utilization on CPU.
Memory.
I might have those two backwards,
so take a note that the fallback
assumptions that are in the application
right now,
leave those untouched as you consider how
to refactor the code.
But let's talk about...
The storage here, so we do have,
hopefully,
in the customer RV tools that we've been
provided,
hopefully we have a column that will be
the in use for storage, and now the...
The original will usually be, and again,
in MIB format,
we need to convert to GB decimal format.
So this utilized storage is what is going
into the matching of a managed disk.
And then, you know,
we get the calculation for pay as you go
or retail price monthly. And of course,
we'll want to extend that, you know,
to annual.
Now,
one thing that needs to be accounted for
as well,
sometimes we'll get these in use MIB
values for a virtual machine that are
very large.
And so this one basically converts once
we convert to GB decimal.
to 202,000, almost 203,
000 gigabytes of storage.
And the thing is,
is that there is not a single managed
disk on the Azure Pricing Retail API that
can fulfill.
that one single storage size,
but we also notice that we have other
metadata here that's helpful with these
large numbers here in this column that
says, it's called disks.
It could be number of disks or be named
something, so just be ready to find
the quantity of disks on that virtual
machine, and you see that as 42.
So there are actually 42 disks that are
yielding this overall just almost 203,
000 gigabytes of storage.
So we'll want to use that into Account to
then to find the,
and the configuration default is LRS.
We don't need GRS or any of that,
because again,
this is a business case and we're trying
to get an optimal cost,
an optimal business case,
and not an overinflated solution
architecture in the business case.
But in this example here,
25 E60 managed disks are...
Matching to be able to fulfill this
overall in use GB for this particular
example here, so that's been, and again,
you know, I, you know,
I codified it or formatted it yellow to
flag to myself.
that is a higher cost because there are
multiple of those that yielded the match.
And then you see other examples down here
where multiple E70 disks to be able to
achieve this overall volume of storage.
and so forth.
So once once all of the errors and the
matchings have occurred using the
methodology and some of the some of the
adaptation techniques that I talked about
in the earlier in this session,
are achieved,
then we sum up the consumption to annual
to show here is pay as you go annual,
here is one year reserved instance annual,
here is three year reserved instance
annual,
and then if there's one in three year
savings plan,
Then we'll include those as well for the
virtual machines.
And then we'll do the same thing for
whatever pricing offers are available to
the managed disks,
matching starting with pay-as-you-go,
annual to whatever other pricing offers
are available.